# Rest API for Messages

### Introduction
This project build REST APIs for handling messages.  
The service will listen port 3000. 
It requires docker on the host to be able to run it locally.
#### build the project
./gradlew clean && ./gradlew assemble 
#### test the project
./gradlew test 
#### build and run the project in docker
./script/build.sh
#### deploy and run the project in docker 
- start service: ./script/run.sh
- stop service: ./script/stop.sh

### Architecture
The project uses Spring framework to handle the HTTP requests:
##### 1. This project uses MVC pattern for API design。
- The REST requests (CRUD) will be processed by handlers in MessageController.java.
- The MessageRepository.java is the persistence layer that will help to store the objects to database. 
##### 2. MongoDB is used in the project for flexible storing the Message with highly availability.
- SequenceGeneratorService.java is used to generate unique message id without exposing the primary 
key of database.
- Version is used to avoid multi-thread conflicts
##### 3. This project provides two strategies to validate the palindrome。
- Restrict: it validates all the characters with origin format
- Alphabet: it validates only the alphabet and digit in the message with case-insensitive
- The mode could be selected by sending the 'restrictMode' in the payload

### REST APIs
#### GET /api/v1/messages
- return all the messages in the system
#### GET /api/v1/messages/{messageId}
- parameter: 
  - messageId: id of the message we would like to get.
- return the message with specific message id
- MessageNotFoundException is thrown if the message not found
#### POST /api/v1/message
- parameter: 
  - request body: message object (JSON) we would like to create. 
  In the message, "content" is the necessary field. For example, 
  { "content": "hello world" } 
- return the message created
#### PUT /api/v1/messages/{messageId}
- parameter: 
  - messageId: id of the message we would like to update
  - request body: message object (JSON) we would like to update.
   For example, sending { "content": "new message" } to 
   /api/v1/messages/1 will update the message with message id 1
- return the updated message
- MessageNotFoundException is thrown if the message not found
#### DELETE /api/v1/messages/{messageId}
- parameter: 
  - messageId: id of the message we would like to delete
- MessageNotFoundException is thrown if the message not found

### Database schema
#### Message
-   id: the unique id generated by database
-   messageId: the unique id for each message for identification
-   content: the content of the message
-   isRestrictMode: whether to use restrict mode to judge palindrome
-   isPalindrome: whether to the message is palindrome
-   createdTime: timestamp to create the message
-   lastUpdate: timestamp to update the message
-   version: the field for multi-version concurrency control

### Deployment
The project has been deployed to GCP https://message-rest-api-docker-pm7foyk4ma-uc.a.run.app
Eg. https://message-rest-api-docker-pm7foyk4ma-uc.a.run.app/api/v1/messages will retrieve all the messages
continuousely deployment is enabled on the project: any push to `gcp` branch will trigger the build and deployment.

